
@@CcProviders.pas
CopyCat replication suite                     
                                              
Copyright (c) 2005 Microtec Communications    
                                              
For any questions or technical support,       
contact Jonathan Neve (jonathan@microtec.fr)

@@TCcDatabase
Description:
\Internal database connection object.

@@TCcDatabase.OnConnectLost
Summary:                                                     
Fired upon database connection loss.                         
Description:                                                 
OnConnectLost gets called when the database connection gets  
abruptly cut. It does not occur however if the connection is 
closed explicitly with the Connected property.

@@TCCField
Description:
\Internal query field or parameter object.

@@TCCField.GetAsCurrency
TCCField

@@TCCField.IsParam
IsParam indicates whether this TCcField is a field or a param

@@TCcMacro
Represents a query macro. This is an internal object, not needed by application
developpers.

@@TCcMacro.ApplyToSQL@String
TCcMacro

@@TCcMacro.Name
Name of the macro.

@@TCcMacro.Value
Current value of the macro. Macros may only be set before the TCcQuery has been
prepared.

@@TCcProvider
Summary:
Database abstraction class.
Description:
TCcProvider is used by TCcReplicator and TCcConfig in order to acheive database
access component independence. Descendants of TCcProvider override the
NewDatabase, NewTransaction and NewQuery methods in order to provide database
connectivity for CopyCat.<p/>
<p/>
Thus, CopyCat can be used interchangeably with any database access components for
which a TCcProvider descendant has been written. Currently, FIBPlus, IBX and UIB
have been implemented. Support for other component sets (such as IBO and possibly
DBX) is also possible, and planned for future versions.

@@TCcProvider.Create@TComponent
TCcProvider

@@TCcProvider.NewDatabase@TComponent
Instantiates and returns a concrete TCcDatabase descendant.

@@TCcProvider.NewQuery@TComponent
Instantiates and returns a concrete TCcQuery descendant.

@@TCcProvider.NewTransaction@TComponent
Instantiates and returns a concrete TCcTransaction descendant.

@@TCcProvider.ProviderName
Name of the database access component set for which this provider is designed.

@@TCcQuery
Description:
\Internal database query object.

@@TCcQuery.Exec
Execute the query (synchronously). If the database connection is inactive, or if
it gets cut during execution, the OnConnectLost event of the database is called

@@TCcQuery.FSQLPrepared
This variable doesn't necessarily mean that the query has been prepared
It merely means that a parameter has been accessed, and that the SQL
therefore cannot be changed any more until the query is closed

@@TCcQuery.InitFields
InitFields is called after every Exec
Descendants must fill FFields with TCCField descendants

@@TCcQuery.InitParams
InitParams is called upon the first access to the parameter list
After parameters have been accessed, the SQL may no longer be modified
Descendants must fill FParams with TCCField descendants
If the underlying DAC handles macros, they must be excluded from the list,
since Macros are handled here at a higher level

@@TCcQuery.SetSQL@String
After accessing the parameters, the SQL can no longer be modified. This is
a lowest common denominator approach, some DACs support it while others don't

@@TCcTransaction
Description:
\Internal database transaction object.

@@TCcTransaction.Commit
TCcTransaction
